
Subject: RE: DMZ Satellite Capsule Build Complete - pln-capsule-dmz01.caal.dev

Hi Brian,

Thanks for offering to help with the DNS. That would be great — here is what I need in calix.local:

A record:
  Name:    pln-capsule-dmz01.calix.local
  Type:    A
  Value:   10.172.16.10

PTR record:
  IP:      10.172.16.10
  Points to: pln-capsule-dmz01.calix.local

Once those are in place I'll need to rebuild the capsule certificates with the calix.local FQDN and re-run the installer since the hostname is currently bound to caal.dev. I can take care of that once the DNS records are confirmed.

Let me know if you need anything else from my end.

Thanks,
Haj



@Haj Suma I can help with DNS reverse zones if needed.  Let’s avoid using CAAL at all costs.  We have an active plan to retire that.  Please let me know what you need in calix.local to use that instead.
Thanks
Brian
 
From: Haj Suma <haj.suma@calix.com>
Sent: Tuesday, March 24, 2026 5:24 AM
To: Brian Wing <Brian.Wing@calix.com>
Cc: Engineering Operations - Infrastructure <EngineeringOperations-Infrastructure@calix.com>
Subject: DMZ Satellite Capsule Build Complete - pln-capsule-dmz01.caal.dev
 
Hi Brian,
 
Quick update - the Satellite Capsule server is built, validated, and now moved into the DMZ subnet.
 
I’ve tested end-to-end:
Capsule is registered and communicating with Satellite
Content is syncing (RHEL7/8/9, Rocky, EPEL, Grafana)
Host registration through the capsule is working
Package installs are being served from the capsule
 
One note - I built this in the caal.dev DNS zone due to PTR replication issues I was hitting with calix.local during setup. I’ll open a ticket for @Deonna Thornton to help take a look at this
 
@Manoja Kumar Barik  - can we get the following firewall rules opened to finish this out:
 
DMZ → Capsule (443)
10.172.16.0/28 → 10.172.16.10
For host registration and package access
 
Capsule → Satellite (443)
10.172.16.10 → 10.172.249.103
For content sync
 
Capsule → Satellite (5646)
10.172.16.10 → 10.172.249.103
For messaging
 
Going forward, all RHEL or RHEL like systems within the DMZ can point to this capsule for package management and OS updates. This removes the need for DMZ hosts to reach out directly to Satellite for content - everything will be served locally through the capsule.
 
Thanks,
Ha




Subject: RE: Petaluma Site Shutdown: Saturday, March 28 - IPA Critical Risk

Hi all,

I need to flag a critical risk with the March 28 Petaluma shutdown as it relates to our IPA (Identity Management) system.

cpeg-ipareplica is currently our sole live IPA master and is the only IPA server that our Plano datacenter systems point to. Our replica IPA system has not been stable for some time and was removed from the topology agreement — which is precisely why this migration has been a priority.

If cpeg goes down before the migration is complete, the impact will be significant:

- Authentication failures on all IPA-joined systems — SSH logins, sudo, and all LDAP-dependent services will stop working across thousands of systems
- CA completely offline — no certificate issuance or renewal

The migration has been underway since Monday March 23rd. I have been working through technical issues as they arise and I am targeting completion before end of day Friday March 27. I am confident this can be done.

However, I am requesting that if the migration is not confirmed complete by end of day Friday March 27, we extend the Petaluma maintenance window by one week to allow sufficient time to complete the migration safely. Bringing cpeg down before pln-ipamaster is fully operational would result in a widespread authentication outage across the environment.

I will send a confirmation email once the Plano IPA master is fully operational and cpeg is safely decommissioned.

Thanks,
Haj




FYI Team,
This will impact Petaluma services.
@Haj Suma will the Petaluma IPA system be relocated to Plano ahead of this time?
@Mahesh Gautam or @Kaushik Bhattacharjee Are there any bamboo agents that you need to shut down and/or validate afterward?    
@Javier Perez Suggesting you shut down your linux PC ahead of time on this.
 
Thank


Petaluma Site Shutdown: Saturday, March 28 (5:00 AM–12:00 PM PT)
 
Due to power maintenance at the Petaluma site, IT will shut down systems on Saturday, March 28 from 5:00 AM–12:00 PM PT. During this time, VMs and lab systems will be unavailable for all Calix employees and contractors.
 
What to Know

·         Outage window: 5:00 AM–12:00 PM PT (3/28)
·         Impact: Petaluma VMs and lab environments offline
·         No action needed after—systems will be brought back online once power is restored.
Where do I Request Additional Assistance?
If you have any questions, please contact the Service Desk.

Web: Service Desk Portal
Email: servicedesk@calix.com
Phone: (707) 766-3411
 
